Dr. Jordan B. Peterson:
"Words are power. No, wrong.
Words are authority. Words are legitimate authority. And so,
without having your words in order, you have no legitimate
authority. And that's the last thing you want, unless all
you want is irresponsibility but that isn't going to work
out for you anyway. And so, the pathway to success for
virtually everyone is facilitation of their capacity to
communicate."
Tony Kaizen:
If you're a young man on the path of self-improvement, then
there are a lot of things you got to do. You've got to get
your mental health in order, right? You've got to deal with
those demons in the depths of your soul if you hope to live
a healthy and productive life. You've got to learn some
technical skills that will get you paid because there's no
love for a broke man in this world. You've got to get your
body in good shape and learn how to use it to defend
yourself and the people you love. You've got to establish a
network of like-minded individuals to learn from and grow
with because those are the people you're going to lean on
when you need some support. But out of all the things you
must do as a young man, none are more important than
developing your communication skills. If you want a healthy
mind, some profitable skills, a powerful body, and a social
circle of quality individuals, then you must learn to
communicate. Not only with other people, but even more
importantly with yourself. So in this episode, we're going
to listen to The Godfather himself, Dr. Jordan B. Peterson,
talking about the importance of good communication skills
and how young men in particular can develop and use them to
become formidable and successful members of society. So
let's check it out.
Dr. Jordan B. Peterson:
"I have an app coming out in a month or two -- hopefully a
month -- called Essay, and I've been working on that with my
son Julian and some other people for four years, and it
stemmed out of our project to sort of universalize the
university, which was too big for me to manage when I got
sick and sort of we narrowed it in scope because we wanted
to teach people how to write. And that's really hard to
scale because you usually learn to write by having people
write, read what you've written, and critique it, and that's
very labor intensive and expensive. So we built a writing
program, like a word processor that has built-in conceptual
tools that aid in the conceptualization of an essay. So
imagine when you're writing, first of all, you have to pick
a good question because you want to answer it. It has to be
a genuine intellectual enterprise. And so the kids are never
taught that. And so pick something important that you want
to explore and then, okay, so what are you doing when you're
writing? Choosing words, forming
phrases, organizing them into sentences, sequencing the
sentences in paragraphs, sequencing the paragraphs into the
chapter, and then chapter into books if you're going that
far. But so it's a hierarchical enterprise. And so when you
write, you have to get the word right in the phrase, right
in the sentence, right in the sentence order. Right? And you
shouldn't do all that at once because you can't because it's
too hard. So you write a rough first draft that's twice as
long as the thing you're trying to write, and then you edit.
You shorten the sentences, you pick the right words, you
pick the right phrases, you rewrite the sentences. So we
built in tools to guide people through this process to help
them conceptualize their essay at the level of the word and
the phrase and the sentence and the paragraph. And to build
those ideas of multi-level editing into the process. And
then we've tested it on a lot of people and we have a nice,
elegant user interface. And we're hoping that,
because...because one of the things I've learned is that
words are power. No, wrong.
Words are authority. Words are legitimate authority. And so
without having your words in order, you have no legitimate
authority. And that's the last thing you want, unless all
you want is irresponsibility but that isn't going to work
out for you anyway. And so the pathway to success for
virtually everyone is facilitation of their capacity to
communicate. And so we're hoping...we really...we really
want to pull young men into using this product because
they're the hardest market to target with such things and
the most in need of it. And part of that is engaging them in
an honest dialogue about what exactly writing is. It's like,
there's no difference between writing and thinking. And
there's no difference between thinking and not failing. So
you let your thoughts die instead of you - that's thinking.
You test everything you do before you implement it - that's
thinking. And writing is a massive aid to that process. And
so if young men in particular were taught properly about
writing and thinking, they would come to view those as like
arrows in their quiver. So...or shields in...in their...in
their combat or the means by which they
aggregate their allies or even more importantly, the...the
means by which they serve themselves in the world properly
and like really, not...No, no moral overlay on top of this.
Well, you know, you're a communicator, you're like...you're
a comedian, you're a master of words, you're a master of
wit, you're a master of listening. That's why you're
successful in this weird, radical way that's completely
unpredictable. And it's also the pathway to adventure. Get
your words in order. And so that's ESSAY. And like I said, I
think if you go to my website or to essay.app, essay.app, or
to my website, you can sign up for...for the...we're going
to do a beta release tested broadly to make sure it doesn't
fall apart under use pressure and before we release it
completely. But we're very excited about that because how to
teach people to write is a really hard academic problem to
solve, and the idea of building the writing tools into the
software, if we got it right, maybe could...could at least
in part address that problem. It's a massive problem. It's a
massive problem. Right? Most people come through university
now without learning how to write, and that means they don't
know how to think. And that means they don't know how to
talk. It's not good."
Tony Kaizen:
In episode number 92 of the podcast, I explained how writing
in a journal every day is not only the key to being able to
think in English, but the key to communicating more
effectively in English. By taking the time to put your
thoughts on paper, you can record, analyze, edit, and refine
them over time. Our thoughts and beliefs are the driving
forces behind every single decision we make. So the
importance of regularly reviewing them cannot be overstated.
From the day we're born, we're repetitively told what to
think. And what we're told to think is generally what
everyone else thinks. And as I said before, what we think
dictates how we behave. So maybe that's the reason that so
many people just do what everyone else does without actually
considering their decision-making process. They're not
thinking for themselves. Many of us allow our societal
programming and our ever changing emotions to dictate
everything we say and do. But why is that? I think it's
because most of us are never taught how to think.
Most of us are never taught how to identify and combat our
cognitive biases. Most of us are never taught how to react
to our intense emotions. Most of us are never taught how to
think strategically. Most of us are never taught how to
diversify our vocabulary and develop our communication
skills. Once I started learning and teaching languages, I
realized that being able to communicate effectively is the
key to absolutely everything you want in this life: money,
power, respect, good mental health, quality friends, a
diverse network, a thriving business, a prolific career. You
will get and keep none of those things without proper
communication skills. It doesn't matter what language you're
speaking. Actually, it does, because we communicate
differently in different languages. If you want to
communicate effectively, then you've got to know how to
think productively. And to do that, you'll need to know how
to write and then analyze what you've written. You can't
make the operating system -- that is your brain -- run more
effectively without analyzing it first. Right? It's the same
thing when you're learning English as a foreign language.
Most people can't speak English because they can't think in
English and they can't think in English because they never
trained themselves to produce thoughts in English. They just
try to memorize words or translate every sentence from their
native language to English whenever they speak. But I
promise you, if you take the time to develop your ability to
listen, analyze, and think, then you'll be able to develop
your ability to communicate. And with good communication
skills, you can have whatever your heart desires. If you
don't believe me, consider your favorite singer or rapper.
Their song lyrics get you through the good times and the bad
times. Their words make you laugh, cry, reflect, dance, and
maybe even feel better about yourself. You identify with
them and feel like they understand you in some way. Somehow
they describe your feelings and personal life in ways that
you never could. And how do they do this? By communicating,
by writing songs. They choose words, phrases, sentences, and
verses to creatively get their message across to their
intended listener. And when they do this effectively, they
have the ability to move millions of people with nothing
more than their words. Do you know how many people would
jump out of an airplane if Drake told them to do it? Do you
know how many people would buy a tube of lipstick if Rihanna
told them to do it? We're talking literally millions of
people around the world. And you might say, "Well, that's
because they're famous entertainers. Of course, people will
do what they say." But how did they reach that level of fame
and recognition? Communication skills. From writing songs to
recording music videos to interacting on social media. All
of them are just different forms of communication. People
like Drake and Rihanna would not live in the hearts and
minds of millions of people if they didn't have great
communication skills. And the good news for you is that you
don't need to be able to write songs and perform on a stage
to have the same effect. You can use your communication
skills to win friends and influence people in your daily
life, whether you're at work, the grocery store, the local
bar, or somewhere overseas. You will get what you want by
knowing how to speak and listen effectively. And the only
way to learn how to do those things is by learning how to
think effectively. So if you're having trouble thinking
effectively, consider learning how to write.